LTD Module Development Engineer (Ph.D.) – Oregon  Hillsboro, Oregon, United States Job ID JR0256345 Job Category Manufacturing and Process Development Work Mode On-site Required Experience Level Entry Level Job	Description		 Join	Intel	and	build	a	better	tomorrow.	Intel	is	in	an	exciting	transformation,	with	a	vision	to	create	and	extend	computing	technology	to	connect	and	enrich	the	lives	of	every	person	on	Earth.	So,	join	us	and	help	us	create	the	next	generation	of	technologies	that	will	shape	the	future	for	decades	to	come.	As	the	world's	largest	chip	manufacturer,	and	a	global	leader	in	innovative	technology,	Intel	strives	to	make	every	facet	of	semiconductor	manufacturing	state-of-the-art	from	semiconductor	process	development	and	manufacturing,	through	yield	improvement	to	packaging,	final	test	and	optimization,	and	world-class	Supply	Chain	and	facilities	support.		What	we	do:	The	Logic	Technology	Development	(LTD)	organization	delivers	the	latest	process	technology	innovations	to	drive	Intel's	amazing	product	roadmap.	Look	at	Life	Inside	Intel	here.	What	we	offer:		• We	foster	a	collaborative,	supportive,	and	exciting	environment	where	the	brightest	minds	in	the	world	come	together	to	achieve	exceptional	results.		• We	give	you	opportunities	to	transform	technology	and	create	a	better	future,	by	delivering	products	that	touch	the	lives	of	every	person	on	earth.	• We	offer	a	competitive	salary	and	financial	benefits	such	as	bonuses,	life,	and	disability	insurance,	opportunities	to	buy	Intel	stock	at	a	discounted	rate,	and	Intel	stock	awards	(eligibility	at	the	discretion	of	Intel	Corporation).	• We	are	constantly	working	on	making	a	more	connected	and	intelligent	future,	and	we	need	your	help.	Change	tomorrow.	Start	today.	By	applying	to	this	Module	Engineering	position,	you	will	be	considered	for	multiple	roles	by	Intel	leaders	representing	the	following	areas:	• Etch																																																															• Metrology	• Planarization	• Lithography	• Dielectrics	• Module	Integration	Yield	• Electrical	Characterization			• Diffusion	• Frame	Automation	Module	Engineering	Responsibilities	include:	• Defining	and	developing	procedures	and	equipment	configuration	for	the	module	with	the	end	goal	of	maximizing	quality,	equipment	availability,	and	output.	• Defining	projects	to	meet	quality,	reliability,	cost,	yield,	productivity,	and	manufacturability	requirements.	• Driving	improvements	in	quality,	reliability,	cost,	yield,	process	stability/capability,	productivity,	and	safety/ergonomics	over	variables	such	as	material,	method,	equipment,	environment,	and	operating	personnel.	• Developing	solutions	to	problems	utilizing	formal	education,	statistical	knowledge,	and	problem-solving	tools.	• Establishing	the	process	control	systems	for	the	process	module	and	sustaining	the	module	through	volume	ramp.	• Developing	strategy	to	resolve	difficult	problems	and	establishes	systems	to	deal	with	these	problems	in	the	future.	• Design	and	execute	experiments	and	analyze	data	necessary	to	develop	processes	that	meet	engineering	specifications	for	manufacturing	that	include	safety	protocols,	automation,	facility,	and	supply	chain	in	addition	to	device	performance	and	yield.		• Work	with	industry	partners	and	equipment	suppliers	to	develop	and	implement	equipment,	identify	equipment	capability	shortcomings,	propose,	and	evaluate	hardware	modification	to	mitigate	issues,	and	implement	preventative	maintenance	needed	for	stable	process	lines.		• Install	and	qualify	capacity	at	the	LTD	site	and	operate	the	manufacturing	line	in	the	manufacturing	of	revenue	products.	• Participate	in	the	transfer	of	technology	to	other	Intel	factories	via	the	Copy	Exactly	methodology	through	training	and	audit	of	installation/qualification	to	ensure	matched	processing	across	sites.		• In	addition	to	these	responsibilities,	you	will	respond	to	production	requests	for	material	disposition	and	alarm	response.			 Qualifications		 You	must	possess	the	minimum	qualifications	below	to	be	initially	considered	for	this	position.	Preferred	qualifications	are	in	addition	to	the	minimum	requirements	and	are	considered	a	plus	factor	in	identifying	top	candidates.	The	experience	listed	below	may	be	obtained	through	schoolwork,	classes	and	project	work,	internships,	military	training,	and/or	work	experience.	Minimum	Qualifications:	-	Must	possess	a	PhD	degree	in	Electrical	Engineering,	Electrical	Computer	Engineering,	Chemical	Engineering,	Material	Science,	Physics,	Chemistry,	Computer	Science,	or	a	Semiconductor-related	STEM	(Science	Technology	Engineering	&	Math)	field	of	study	(with	a	focus	on	hands-on	experimental	research).		Must	be	able	to	start	within	8	months.	Preferred	Qualifications:	• Statistics	Coursework,	Statistical	Process	Control	(SPC)	or	Design	of	Experiments	(DOE)	principles,	and	engineering	analysis	tools	• Experimental	lab	work	• Semiconductor	and	transistor	device	physics	• Advanced	transistor	device	structures	and	architectures	including	fabrication	(e.g.,	lithography,	etch,	film	deposition,	cleans,	chemical-mechanical	planarization,	etc.)	with	in-depth	knowledge	of	semiconductor	device	physics	and	process	integration	• Data	analysis	skills	with	demonstrated	ability	to	construct	clear	data-based	problem	statements	• Semiconductor	processing	fundamentals	(lithography,	wet	etch,	dry	etch,	chemical	and	or	mechanical	polishing,	etc.)	• Design	of	experiments	• Materials	and	physical	device	characterization	(SEM,	TEM,	etc.)	and	fundamentals	of	semiconductor	device	testing	• Statistical,	data	analysis	(MATLAB,	Excel,	JMP,	etc.)	• Benefits:	• We	provide	benefits	that	promote	a	healthy,	enjoyable	life:	excellent	medical	plans,	wellness	programs,	and	amenities,	time	off,	recreational	activities,	discounts	on	various	products	and	services,	and	many	more	creative	rewards	that	make	Intel	a	Great	Place	to	Work!		Find	more	information	about	our	amazing	benefits	here.		 